##<a name="section8">参照</a>

<a name="reference1">[1]</a> Andrew W. Appel and Trevor Jim. Continuation-passing, closure-passing style. In Michael J. O'Donnell and Stuart Feldman, editors, *Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages,* pages 293-302, Austin, Texas, January 1989. ACM Press.

<a name="reference2">[2]</a> Anindya Banerjee, Nevin Heintze, and Jon G. Riecke. Semantics-based design and correctness of control-flow analysis-based program transformations. Unpublished, March 2001.

<a name="reference3">[3]</a> Henk Barendregt. *The Lambda Calculus: Its Syntax and Semantics, volume 103 of Studies in Logic and the Foundation of Mathematics*. North-Holland, 1984. Revised edition.

<a name="reference4">[4]</a> Jeffrey M. Bell, Françoise Bellegarde, and James Hook. Type-driven defunctionalization. In Mads Tofte, editor, *Proceedings of the 1997 ACM SIG-PLAN International Conference on Functional Programming*, pages 25-37, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, June 1997. ACM Press.

<a name="reference5">[5]</a> Anders Bondorf. *Self-Applicable Partial Evaluation*. PhD thesis, DIKU, Computer Science Department, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, 1990. DIKU Rapport 90/17.

<a name="reference6">[6]</a> Urban Boquist. *Code Optimization Techniques for Lazy Functional Languages*. PhD thesis, Department of Computing Science, Chalmers University of Technology, Göteborg University, Göteborg, Sweden, April 1999.

<a name="reference7">[7]</a> Henry Cejtin, Suresh Jagannathan, and Stephen Weeks. Flow-directed closure conversion for typed languages. In Smolka [[47](脱関数化を実用する 8#reference47)], pages 56-71.

<a name="reference8">[8]</a> Weidong Chen, Michael Kifer, and David S. Warren. Hilog: A foundation for higher-order logic programming. *The Journal of Logic Programming*, 15(3):187-230, February 1993.

<a name="reference9">[9]</a> Alonzo Church. *The Calculi of Lambda-Conversion*. Princeton University Press, 1941.

<a name="reference10">[10]</a> Olivier Danvy. Back to direct style. *Science of Computer Programming*, 22(3):183-195, 1994.

<a name="reference11">[11]</a> Olivier Danvy. Formalizing implementation strategies for first-class continuations. In Smolka [[47](脱関数化を実用する 8#reference47)], pages 88-103.

<a name="reference12">[12]</a> Olivier Danvy and Andrzej Filinski. Representing control, a study of the CPS transformation. *Mathematical Structures in Computer Science*, 2(4):361-391, 1992.

<a name="reference13">[13]</a> Olivier Danvy, Bernd Grobauer, and Morten Rhiger. A unifying approach to goal-directed evaluation. *New Generation Computing*, 20(1), 2001. To appear. A preliminary version is available in the proceedings of SAIG 2001.

<a name="reference14">[14]</a> Olivier Danvy and Julia L. Lawall. Back to direct style II: First-class continuations. In William Clinger, editor, *Proceedings of the 1992 ACM Conference on Lisp and Functional Programming*, LISP Pointers, Vol. V, No. 1, pages 299-310, San Francisco, California, June 1992. ACM Press.

<a name="reference15">[15]</a> Olivier Danvy and Frank Pfenning. The occurrence of continuation parameters in CPS terms. Technical report CMU-CS-95-121, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, February 1995.

<a name="reference16">[16]</a> Edsger W. Dijkstra. Recursive programming. In Saul Rosen, editor, *Programming Systems and Languages*, chapter 3C, pages 221-227. McGraw-Hill, New York, 1960.

<a name="reference17">[17]</a> R. Kent Dybvig. *Three Implementation Models for Scheme*. PhD thesis, Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, April 1987. Technical Report #87-011.

<a name="reference18">[18]</a> Leonidas Fegaras. lambda-DB. Available online at [http://lambda.uta.edu/lambda-DB/manual/](http://lambda.uta.edu/lambda-DB/manual/), 1999-2001.

<a name="reference19">[19]</a> Matthias Felleisen. *The Calculi of λ-v-CS Conversion: A Syntactic Theory of Control and State in Imperative Higher-Order Programming Languages*. PhD thesis, Department of Computer Science, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, August 1987.

<a name="reference20">[20]</a> Daniel P. Friedman, Mitchell Wand, and Christopher T. Haynes. *Essentials of Programming Languages, second edition*. The MIT Press, 2001.

<a name="reference21">[21]</a> Jean-Yves Girard. Locus solum. *Mathematical Structures in Computer Science*, 11(3), 2001. To appear.

<a name="reference22">[22]</a> Joseph A. Goguen, James W. Thatcher, and Eric G. Wagner. An initial algebra approach to the specification, correctness and implementation of abstract data types. In *Current Trends in Programming Methodology*, volume IV, pages 80-149. Prentice-Hall, 1978.

<a name="reference23">[23]</a> Adele Goldberg and David Robson. Smalltalk-80: *The Language and its Implementation*. Addison-Wesley, 1983.

<a name="reference24">[24]</a> Mayer Goldberg. *Recursive Application Survival in the λ-Calculus*. PhD thesis, Computer Science Department, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, May 1996.

<a name="reference25">[25]</a> Robert Harper. Proof-directed debugging. *Journal of Functional Programming*, 9(4):463-469, July 1999.

<a name="reference26">[26]</a> John E. Hopcroft and Jeffrey D. Ullman. *Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation*. Addison-Wesley, 1979.

<a name="reference27">[27]</a> John Hughes. Super combinators: A new implementation method for applicative languages. In Daniel P. Friedman and David S. Wise, editors, *Conference Record of the 1982 ACM Symposium on Lisp and Functional Programming*, pages 1-10, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, August 1982. ACM Press.

<a name="reference28">[28]</a> John Hughes. A novel representation of lists and its application to the function “reverse”. *Information Processing Letters*, 22(3):141-144, 1986.

<a name="reference29">[29]</a> Thomas Johnsson. Lambda lifting: Transforming programs to recursive equations. In Jean-Pierre Jouannaud, editor, *Functional Programming Languages and Computer Architecture*, number 201 in Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 190-203, Nancy, France, September 1985. Springer-Verlag.

<a name="reference30">[30]</a> Peter J. Landin. The mechanical evaluation of expressions. *Computer Journal*, 6:308-320, 1964.

<a name="reference31">[31]</a> Chris Mellish and Steve Hardy. Integrating Prolog in the POPLOG environment. In John A. Campbell, editor, *Implementations of PROLOG*, pages 147-162. Ellis Horwood, 1984.

<a name="reference32">[32]</a> Yasuhiko Minamide, Greg Morrisett, and Robert Harper. Typed closure conversion. In Guy L. Steele Jr., editor, *Proceedings of the Twenty-Third Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages*, pages 271-283, St. Petersburg Beach, Florida, January 1996. ACM Press.

<a name="reference33">[33]</a> Torben Æ. Mogensen. Efficient self-interpretation in lambda calculus. *Journal of Functional Programming*, 2(3):345-363, 1992.

<a name="reference34">[34]</a> Tim Nicholson and Norman Y. Foo. A denotational semantics for Prolog. *ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems*, 11(4):650-665, 1989.

<a name="reference35">[35]</a> Lasse R. Nielsen. A denotational investigation of defunctionalization. Progress report (superseded by [[36](脱関数化を実用する 8#reference36)]), BRICS PhD School, University of Aarhus, June 1999.

<a name="reference36">[36]</a> Lasse R. Nielsen. A denotational investigation of defunctionalization. Technical Report BRICS RS-00-47, DAIMI, Department of Computer Science, University of Aarhus, Aarhus, Denmark, December 2000.

<a name="reference37">[37]</a> Simon L. Peyton Jones. *The Implementation of Functional Programming Languages*. Prentice Hall International Series in Computer Science. Prentice-Hall International, 1987.

<a name="reference38">[38]</a> Simon L. Peyton Jones and David R. Lester. *Implementing Functional Languages*. Prentice Hall International Series in Computer Science. Prentice-Hall, 1992.

<a name="reference39">[39]</a> Jeff Polakow. Linear logic programming with ordered contexts. In Maurizio Gabbrielli and Frank Pfenning, editors, *Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Principles and Practice of Declarative Programming*, pages 68-79, Montréal, Canada, September 2000. ACM Press.

<a name="reference40">[40]</a> Jeff Polakow and Kwangkeun Yi. Proving syntactic properties of exceptions in an ordered logical framework. In Herbert Kuchen and Kazunori Ueda, editors, *Fifth International Symposium on Functional and Logic Programming*, number 2024 in Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 61-77, Tokyo, Japan, March 2001. Springer-Verlag.

<a name="reference41">[41]</a> Todd A. Proebsting. Simple translation of goal-directed evaluation. In Ron K. Cytron, editor, *Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN'97 Conference on Programming Languages Design and Implementation}*, SIGPLAN Notices, Vol. 32, No 5, pages 1-6, Las Vegas, Nevada, June 1997. ACM Press.

<a name="reference42">[42]</a> John C. Reynolds. The essence of Algol. In van Vliet, editor, *International Symposium on Algorithmic Languages*, pages 345-372, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1982. North-Holland.

<a name="reference43">[43]</a> John C. Reynolds. Definitional interpreters for higher-order programming languages. *Higher-Order and Symbolic Computation*, 11(4):363-397, 1998. Reprinted from the proceedings of the 25th ACM National Conference (1972).

<a name="reference44">[44]</a> John C. Reynolds. Definitional interpreters revisited. *Higher-Order and Symbolic Computation*, 11(4):355-361, 1998.

<a name="reference45">[45]</a> John C. Reynolds. *Theories of Programming Languages*. Cambridge University Press, 1998.

<a name="reference46">[46]</a> Olin Shivers. *Control-Flow Analysis of Higher-Order Languages or Taming Lambda*. PhD thesis, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, May 1991. Technical Report CMUCS-91-145.

<a name="reference47">[47]</a> Gert Smolka, editor. *Proceedings of the Ninth European Symposium on Programming*, number 1782 in Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Berlin, Germany, March 2000. Springer-Verlag.

<a name="reference48">[48]</a> Paul A. Steckler and Mitchell Wand. Lightweight closure conversion. *ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems*, 19(1):48-86, 1997.

<a name="reference49">[49]</a> Guy L. Steele Jr. Rabbit: A compiler for Scheme. Technical Report AI-TR-474, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, May 1978.

<a name="reference50">[50]</a> Christopher Strachey. Fundamental concepts in programming languages. *Higher-Order and Symbolic Computation*, 13(1/2):1-49, 2000.

<a name="reference51">[51]</a> Andrew Tolmach and Dino P. Oliva. From ML to Ada: Strongly-typed language interoperability via source translation. *Journal of Functional Programming*, 8(4):367-412, 1998.

<a name="reference52">[52]</a> David A. Turner. A new implementation technique for applicative languages. *Software―Practice and Experience*, 9(1):31-49, 1979.

<a name="reference53">[53]</a> Philip Wadler. Deforestation: Transforming programs to eliminate trees. *Theoretical Computer Science*, 73(2):231-248, 1989.

<a name="reference54">[54]</a> Mitchell Wand. Continuation-based program transformation strategies. *Journal of the ACM*, 27(1):164-180, January 1980.

<a name="reference55">[55]</a> Daniel C. Wang and Andrew W. Appel. Type-safe garbage collectors. In Hanne Riis Nielson, editor, *Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages*, pages 166-178, London, United Kingdom, January 2001. ACM Press.

<a name="reference56">[56]</a> Glynn Winskel. *The Formal Semantics of Programming Languages*. Foundation of Computing Series. The MIT Press, 1993.

<a name="reference57">[57]</a> Yong Xiao, Amr Sabry, and Zena M. Ariola. From syntactic theories to interpreters: Automating proofs of decomposition lemma. *Higher-Order and Symbolic Computation*, 14(4), 2001. To appear.
